so the next segment is going to be about
the penn treebank which is one of the
most
in building parsers one thing that I
would like to mention here is that the
penn treebank paper even though it
doesn't describe any specific algorithm
or evaluation is one of the most cited
papers in the entire history of natural
language processing so what is the penn
treebank why is it important
so the pen T Bank was created in the
early 90s at the University of
Pennsylvania and it was designed so that
people can build trainable parsers so
the idea was to take human annotators
and to ask them to parse sentences by
hand and then use this information as
features for the development of parsers
so the paper that decided the most is by
which markers bit recent Iranian men
marching cabbage from 1993 the size of
the penn treebank is not that large
it has about 40,000 training sentences
that have been processed by hand and
2,400 test sentences so just to give
your heads up if you train a parser on
the penn treebank should never look at
the test data until your parser is fully
developed so the genre of text included
in the penn treebank is mostly Wall
Street Journal news stories and also
some spoken conversations so to
summarize its importance the penn
treebank single-handedly helped launched
modern automatic parsing methods so
here's some pointers if you want to
explore the penn treebank that it's
available from the LDC catalog as LDC 99
number 42 there's an order version
available from 95 as well and here is a
website that gives you the tokenization
guidelines how to split sentences into
words and finally there is another
pointer of a similar resource called
they make a national corpus which is
also available online so what does the
penn treebank tag set look like well the
next two slides are going to show you
the different tags for parts of speech
let's start with some examples C C
stands for coordinating conjunctions
such as the word
CD is a cardinal number for example one
determiner like there is marcus dt
adjectives rjj models are md singular
mass nouns are marked as n n and then
you can add an extra s or P at the end
to indicate plural you can also have our
B for adverb verbs the base form of a
verb is VB but you can also have special
cases for example V BD is the past tense
of a verb such as took vbg is a gerund
or present participle vbn is the past
participle for example taken and so on
and one important thing to realize is
that all the prepositions are marked
with the special symbol i n that symbol
is not just used for the preposition in
it's used for any purpose ition of
subordinating conjunction except for the
preposition to which has its own tag
namely tio and the reason is that the
preposition to is also used a lot in
infinitives and some other special
constructions has to be significantly
different from the rest of the
prepositions so here's an example
sentence it's from The Wall Street
Journal section of the pantry Bank it's
section 12 sentence 11 because the city
had an effective yield of 13.4% when it
was issued in 1994 and interest rates in
general had declined sharply since then
part of the price dr. Blumenfeld paid
was a premium an additional amount on
top of the CDs base value plus a crude
interest that represented the city's
increased market value I took the time
to read the sentence in its entirety
just to give you an appreciation of the
complexity and the subject matter that
is specific to the penn treebank
so this is the beginning of the sentence
represented exactly as it appears in the
panty bank you can recognize some
non-traditional labels here for example
s bar corresponds to the fragment of the
center that starts with because and you
can have another cent s bar
the one that corresponds to the time
expression when it was issued and so on
and you have specific words for example
the pp at the bottom of the screen in
1984 is labeled as a PP time TMP stands
for temporal propositional phrase that
expresses time
this thing here is an ax relatively
small font but I had to fill it all in
one screen this is the full parse tree
that corresponds to the specifics and as
you can see that it's very complicated
and the way to read it is in three
columns left right so here's some other
interesting factors here for example the
coordinating conjunction end is
indicated with CC and you can have two
sentences conjoined with this end so the
first one is the one that starts with
the CD had an effective yield of 13.4%
and so on the second one is interest
rates in general had declined sharply so
this grammar allows for coordinating
conjunctions two links in entire
sentences so let's look at some of the
peculiarities of the penn treebank it
includes things like complementizer x'
for example the word that it includes
gaps for example the word nun foods up
if you have a sentence that says Mary
likes chemistry and hates biology the
subject of the second verb hates is also
Mary and it appears as a gap in the
parse tree so it will be labeled with
the string star known star and it also
includes a special category called s bar
which comes from x-bar theory it's in
this example a sentence that starts with
the complementizer for example I don't
believe that he will come tomorrow so
that he will come tomorrow is an S bar
so there is a tool that you can use to
parse the pen t bank that allows you to
search for specific configurations of
non terminals and terminals and here
some of this operators a less than B
gives you sentences where
a as a non-terminal immediately
dominates or is the parent of be a less
and less than B means that a is
somewhere above be in the parse tree but
it's not necessarily its parent and so
on as you can see the syntax here is
pretty rich and that gives you a good
opportunity to find sentences to use as
examples so this is more or less what
the penn treebank looks like what is it
used for well first of all it has some
disadvantages the general idea of using
T banks seems like a non-starter if you
ask me because it takes a lot more work
to annotate 40,000 sentences than to
write a grammar but this may be only a
superficial disadvantage there are
actually some advantages as well you can
use the pen T Bank to count statistics
about different constituents and
phenomena for example how many times
does a noun phrase turn into a specific
right-hand side in when it's part of the
subject of the sentence always part of
the object of the sentence you can use
it to train systems and you can use it
to evaluate systems so you can have an
automatic parser produce its output and
then you can compare that output using
some more defined statistical techniques
against manual annotations it's also
possible to use the same technology for
building a multilingual versions of the
Penta bank in fact many such versions
exist for many European languages as
well as Chinese and Korean and so on so
now let's see how we can use something
like the penn treebank
for evaluating parsers so the evaluation
methodology in general is the same as
the one that is used for evaluating
classifiers you have for example a
binary classifier where every object in
your dataset has to be labeled as either
true or false or either positive or
negative so sort of some traditional
classification tasks a document
retrieval is one example you have a
document you have a query and you have
to say whether this document is relevant
to the query yes or no part of speech
tagging is a classification task where
you have more than two classes so for
example a word like around can be
labelled as a now
Reverb was an adjective out of the
sequence of parts of speech that I
showed you earlier which has about 60
different parts of speech parsing can
also be considered as a classification
task you have essentially a set of words
that can be labeled as either a sentence
or a noun phrase or a verb phrase and if
you get the class right you should get
some points if you get it wrong you
should lose some points so the penn
treebank is split in general into a
training set and a test set in more
general cases for classification
evaluation you have three sets a
training set that is used to learn what
the data looks like then a dev test set
which is used to test your parsing
method without touching the official
test set so if you use a dev test set
you can go back and retrain your system
and see how it works without going to
the official test set and finally we
have the official test set which only
allowed to look at once after your
parser has been developed if you look at
it more than once you would essentially
overfit and your results are not going
to be valid and then i'm going to be
acceptable by the research community so
what are some of the baselines used in
evaluation you can have a dumb baseline
for example label everything as a noun
or label everything is a noun phrase you
can also have an intelligent baseline
which typically is something straight
forward for example label every word
with its most likely part of speech
looking at the training data so for
example if the word around can be either
a noun a verb or an adjective but the
nonsense of round is the most frequent
one you can label it as round as a noun
every time and that will give you a more
intelligent baseline than the one that
just says every label every word is a
noun you can also have a human
performance metric that tells you how
accurate the system can be expected to
be if humans don't agree on their
performance that means that the system
should not be expected to do any better
than the human so for example if on the
part of speech tagging task humans only
achieve 90
eight percent accuracy you should not
expect your para speech system to go
above ninety-eight percent so if you
define a new method for example let's
say some statistical parser you have to
be able to compare it against those
baselines and the human performance
using some standard set of evaluation
methods so what people typically use our
accuracy so how many times does the
label that you predict match the correct
label precision Enrico which we have
looked at in an earlier set of slides
which tell us for precision of all the
things that you have labeled as positive
or how many are actually positive
according to the training data and HECO
is when you measure of all the things
that you could have labeled as positive
based on the training data how many you
actually label this positive and there
are extensions to accuracy precision and
recall that take into account the fact
that there may be multiple references
that conflict with one another for
example different humans disagreeing on
some specific label so in that case you
have to take into account the intake
judge agreement the judge agreement just
tells you what percentage of times the
human judges pick the same label and
finally you can use a metric called
Coppa which looks like this Kappa is a
normalized performance of your system P
of a is the agreement between your
system and the human judges or between
multiple human judges and P of E is the
expected agreement if the judges were to
label some things randomly so for
example if Coppa is greater than 0.7 it
is assumed that integer human is high if
it's somewhere much lower than that for
example 0.4 0.3 that means that the task
is not well defined and you should
probably not consider it at all because
no matter what result your system
achieves it will not be a meaningful if
the judges themselves don't agree on the
correct levels so this is more or less
how evaluation is done in general so I
have a question for you if
agreement on the binary classification
task is 60% is this high enough is it
good what do you think well the answer
to the question is if we consider the
formula for Kappa and we plug in the
numbers we have the probability of a
which is the agreement is 0.6 but the
expected agreement by chance given two
classes is 0.5 so if we compute Kappa we
realize that the value of Kappa is point
one in the numerator divided by 0.5 in
the denominator which is equal to 0.2 or
20% and as we said on the previous slide
20% is not by far not an acceptable or
into judge agreement so in this case we
can say that the task is not well
defined so how do we evaluate parsers
well there are some standard techniques
for evaluating them there are some of
them are based on precision and recall
whether you get the constituents right
or not you can also have labelled
precision and recall so in the
difference between precision and recall
labelled procedure and the Ricoh is it
in the former case you're only looking
at whether you get the right words
bracketed together properly
but you label precision and echo you
also want to make sure that the label of
each non-terminal is correct
so for example if you label something as
a verb phrase where is it's actually a
noun phrase you're not going to get full
credit on labeled precision and reco
even though you would get full credit on
precision and recall one metric that is
used a lot to combine precision and reco
is F 1 F 1 is just a harmonic mean of
precision and reco and its highest when
both precision and echo are high it's
low when one of them is high and the
other one is low and vice versa so one
specific twist in evaluating parsers has
to do with something called crossing
brackets so if the correct parse is ABC
where BLC are grouped together before
they join a and your system produces a
be grouped together before joining them
with C you're going to get a crossing
bracket error so in the petty back
corpus as I mentioned before people
usually train on sex
zero to 221 the use section 22 for
development like dev test and then
finally evaluate their performance on
section 23 so let's look at an example
of an evaluation this is a gold standard
for the sentence the Japanese industrial
companies should know better and this is
the output of a relatively
state-of-the-art parser the charniak
parser it produces the parse shown at
the bottom here and you can see that
there are some differences they are
shown in both phase for example it has
used the different part of speech for
the word better instead of labeling it
as jjr it labeled it as an R B R so this
is going to reduce its labeled accuracy
and it's labeled precision and reco and
labeled F ones
so overall the output of the parse of
our evaluation for this pair of
sentences is that the bracketing reco is
80% because eight out of ten are
correctly picked the bracketing
precision is two thirds six out of nine
what that means is that three of the
ones that were picked by the China
parser are incorrect the F measure which
is the harmonic mean of those two
numbers is 72% complete match is zero
meaning that the sentence was not
completely parsed correctly it gets a
hundred percent score on not crossing
because they're not crossing
dependencies and finally it's tagging
accuracies eighty seven point five or
seven out of eight words or crack the
label the one mistake being the word
better so this is the kind of numbers
that you would see reported in papers
bracketing measures and tagging accuracy
and complete match and non crossing so
this concludes the section on evaluating
parsers in the next segment we are going
to talk about statistical parsing